Agenda for 2024-07-10 CG meeting (#672)
solid/specification: meetings/2024-07-10.md

* HZ: Inrupt has not made a decision yet and hope to have one end of week. 
* HZ: Don't think there is a deadline to register for TPAC. Will have meeting there.
* RG: Cost might increase - early decision could save you some money.
* HZ: Would be good to think if JZ want to present any demos.
* JZ: Happy to if it would be useful.
* HZ: Maybe the practitioners could. JZ, could you share proposition with practitioners? It's easy to communicate with us if so. 
* JZ: Will bring up at a practitioners meeting.
* HZ: No obligation, just an opportunity.

### Solidifying Solid Project
URL: https://github.com/solid/organizations
* HZ: Interested parties not present so suggest postponing. 
* JZ: Interested to hear thoughts, have had good feedback from here, practitioners and SolidOS meeting. Moving ahead, and welcome others joining. 
* HZ: All good though my context slightly different. Thinking about guidance to give app developers for how to store data in a POD. Need to think about decoupling of data from apps. Ruben talked about views. An application uses a view - a subset of a graph - and that is related to what you have here.

> * JZ: Yes, agree that working on a way to present a view. Disagree that this is bound to an application. Purpose is to have a shape that describes the data so any organisation can use the shape to present the data. Goal to have client-to-client of shapes that are interoperable. I am working on one way of presenting a view of those shapes. Anybody else could create a different view.
> * HZ: Agree with everything you have said but context is larger. Requires some sort of conversation. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* JZ: Yes, agree about working on a way to present a view. Disagree that this is bound to an application. Purpose is to have a shape that describes the data, so any organisation can use the shape to present the data. Goal is to have client-to-client set of shapes that are interoperable. I am working on one way of presenting a view of those shapes. Anybody else could create a different view.
* HZ: Agree with everything you have said, but context is larger. Requires some sort of conversation. 
```

> * RG: When you are describing data in a shape what you are thinking of is putting that data in one file (not generalising it). Then read that data. That is linked to other things in that resource. Some of those links are to the outside world, and some to different containers in your POD. You have diverse linking mechnaisms there. My proposal for simplifying the Solid protocol gets to this (this is not public). Hadrian you have not seen yet - will share privately. How are you going to refine that data within your container? 
> * JZ: Understand that's a problem but nothing to do with what I am doing. I am designing a shape that can be used by an exterior entity to find out what you doa nd what products you have. You might have a bigger shape that you use to connect internally but that is not relevant to a catalogue. Just needs to know this is a thing, this is what it's useful for and where to go to find out more about it. Looking for a minimal shape to use to provide an overview of what's going on in the ecosystem. Only way it relates to things being stored in a POD is where this catalogue lives.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* RG: When you are describing data in a shape, you are thinking of putting that data in one file (not generalising it). Then read the data that is linked to other things in that resource. Some of those links are to the outside world, and some to different containers in your POD. You have diverse linking mechanisms there. My proposal for simplifying the Solid protocol gets to this (this is not public). Hadrian, you have not seen yet — will share privately. How are you going to refine that data within your container? 
* JZ: I understand that's a problem, but nothing to do with what I am doing. I am designing a shape that can be used by an exterior entity to find out what you do and what products you have. You might have a bigger shape that you use to connect internally, but that is not relevant to a catalogue. Just need to know this is a thing, this is what it's useful for, and where to go to find out more about it. Looking for a minimal shape to use to provide an overview of what's going on in the ecosystem. Only way it relates to things being stored in a POD is where this catalogue lives.
```

> * HZ: I don't think anyone disagrees with what you say. Don't see it is a problem but perhaps a missed opportunity. Don't think it's the right time to discuss yet. What gives me hope is lots of people think about this independently. How can we take this to resolution?
> * JZ: If people have opinions about where I should be storing things e.g. temp place for vocabularly then open to suggestions. People should let me know if they think differently. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* HZ: I don't think anyone disagrees with what you say. Don't see it as a problem, but perhaps a missed opportunity. Don't think it's the right time to discuss yet. What gives me hope is lots of people think about this independently. How can we take this to resolution?
* JZ: If people have opinions about where I should be storing things, e.g., temporary place for vocabulary, I'm open to suggestions. People should let me know if they think differently. 
```

> * HZ: So no concrete ask now other than figuring out the storage?
> * JZ: Yes, but for people to be aware of it and if they have ideas to let me know. 
> * RG: Have said this to JZ privately, but he is moving faster than anyone in the community right now with things. 
> * HZ: I agree, also activity pods moving quickly too. Jeff, you are doing a great job and have my support. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* HZ: So, no concrete ask now other than figuring out the storage?
* JZ: Yes, but for people to be aware of it, and if they have ideas to let me know. 
* RG: Have said this to JZ privately, but he is moving faster than anyone in the community right now with many things. 
* HZ: I agree. Activity pods moving quickly too. Jeff, you are doing a great job and have my support. 
```

  

### C2C: Project Management
URL : https://github.com/solid/specification/issues/641

> * HZ what would it take to complete/close this?
> * HZ: Elf started this so hold till next week when he can join. Commonality between this and Jeff's work - how to we store stuff?
> * JZ: Had a practitioners meeting on shapes and created [solid-shapes](https://github.com/solid/shapes) wiki as resource on shapes. Eventually will pull into other catalogue thing. Decided wiki we could all contribute to was best thing.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* HZ: What would it take to complete/close this?
* HZ: Elf started this, so hold till next week when he can join. Commonality between this and Jeff's work — how to we store stuff?
* JZ: Had a practitioners meeting on shapes and created [solid-shapes](https://github.com/solid/shapes) wiki as resource on shapes. Eventually will pull into other catalogue thing. Decided wiki we could all contribute to was best thing.
```

### How to continue to work around user stories
URL: https://hackmd.io/oqXhIuS4SbmtmuzD0eufeQ
URL: https://github.com/solid/user-stories

### How can the CG ingest feedback from Solid users?

> * JZ: Suggested resources should be made available but was put down to say CG was about forming specifications and not for us to outreach to communities, publicise things, drawing wider community. This was when CG was reorganising, and so practitioners was formed as part of solid team - that's it's purpose to grow forum, solidproject.org, github things that are managed etc. 
> * HZ: For the record, when I volunteered for co-chair I said my role would be to outreach and grow the community. So do not agree that the CG is about that - I feel it is exactly that.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* JZ: Suggested resources should be made available, but was put down to say CG was about forming specifications and not for us to outreach to communities, publicise things, draw wider community. This was when CG was reorganising, so practitioners was formed as part of Solid Team — that's it's purpose: to grow forum, solidproject.org, github things that are managed, etc. 
* HZ: For the record, when I volunteered for co-chair, I said my role would be to outreach and grow the community. So do not agree that the CG is not about that — I feel it is exactly that.
```

> * JZ: Go back and read discussion about that. CG has been so focused on spec it has no connection to new users.
> * HZ: I agree. Part of the CG is to received feedback from the community.
> * RG: I will link you to it, but essential push from SC is that because this is a "W3C CG" it has to do work that is to be channelled into Solid WG. So had supported Jeff but then agreed for the charter to happen. That is why Jeff went on to form own practitioners group, which was wise to do. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* JZ: Go back and read discussion about that. CG has been so focused on spec, it has no connection to new users.
* HZ: I agree. Part of the CG is to received feedback from the community.
* RG: I will link you to it, but essential push from SC is that because this is a "W3C CG", it has to do work that is to be channelled into Solid WG. So had supported Jeff, but then agreed for the charter to happen. That is why Jeff went on to form own Practitioners group, which was wise to do. 
```

> * HZ: Should be a communication 
> * JZ: Agree, if could then would have practitioners as part of CG(?)
> * HZ: Few weeks ago discussed in CG that outreaching to OFN as Maxime works with them. They expressed same desire as they do not have time to be involved in spec but would like to be. I work on such efforts, we have to improve the 'feedback mechanism' - any ideas about how to do that more formally in the CG? People talk about business models (how you use a spec etc.) and not sure how this feedback can be received

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* HZ: Should be a communication.
* JZ: Agree. If could, then would have practitioners as part of CG(?)
* HZ: Few weeks ago, discussed in CG that outreaching to OFN, as Maxime works with them. They expressed same desire, as they do not have time to be involved in spec but would like to be. I work on such efforts; we have to improve the 'feedback mechanism' — any ideas about how to do that more formally in the CG? People talk about business models (how you use a spec etc.) and not sure how this feedback can be received.
```

> * JZ: Having tried to do it through the CG and not accepted as good path, created separate path of practitioners. In our overview it says purpose is to 'provide feedback to the community' - e.g. meeting on search then special topic meeting where presented to the CG what the practitioners had come up with.
> * RG: On business model, would suggest having a meeting at practitioners. They are involved in work and trying to prepare businesses/orgs that are using solid.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* JZ: Having tried to do it through the CG and not been accepted as good path, created separate path of Practitioners. In our overview, it says purpose is to 'provide feedback to the community' — e.g., meeting on search, then special topic meeting where presented to the CG what the practitioners had come up with.
* RG: On business model, would suggest having a meeting at Practitioners. They are involved in work and trying to prepare businesses/orgs that are using Solid.
```

> * HZ: Not sure how to solve this. View to only focus on spec and then other extreme is community can provide feedback but in a non-actionable way. Need something in the middle e.g. discussion forum where solutions can be worked on that lead to changes to the spec/documentation etc. Not sure who is supposed to do this right now. 
> * JZ: Heard from Maxime they do not want to spend time fiddling with the specs, they want to build applications and communicate with people what the changes should be. 
> * RG: Agree with 95% of this. When you have fledgling tech, and say want to sit on the sidelines, then suggest you should have conversations with people who are writing the spec - understand the perspective from one another. Has to involved people who are doing practical and theoretical work. I have tried to talk to Maxime a little bit.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* HZ: Not sure how to solve this. View to only focus on spec, and then other extreme is that community can provide feedback, but in a non-actionable way. Need something in the middle, e.g., discussion forum where solutions can be worked on that lead to changes to the spec/documentation, etc. Not sure who is supposed to do this right now. 
* JZ: Heard from Maxime: they do not want to spend time fiddling with the specs; they want to build applications and communicate with people what the changes should be. 
* RG: Agree with 95% of this. When you have fledgling tech, and say want to sit on the sidelines, then suggest you should have conversations with people who are writing the spec — understand the perspective from one another. Has to involve people who are doing practical and theoretical work. I have tried to talk to Maxime a little bit.
```
